It is an exciting time for artificial intelligence research and development. The image recognition competition has been continually advanced in the past few years, with ony rate in year 2014, Watson beats the best human candidates in challenge, Driver-less car is around the corner and is expected to transition from lab to real streets. As a veteran software developer with 9 years experience in developing enterprise software, I yearn to be part of exciting technology advancement and pursue a research and development career in a specific area such as computer vision, data mining, natural language, natural language proceeding, machine learning  and etc,

To achieve such a goal, the most effective path would be to pursue a graduate program in the field of artificial intelligence and get myself exposed to systematic understanding of the field as well as the state of the art research status in the field. I believe I am well prepared for a graduate program in the field in artificial intelligence, in terms of both education background and work experience.

I had a track record of very successful academic performance. I received Bachelor degree of mechanical engineering from NanChange university, one of the Chinese national ”211 Project”universities.Due to my excellent performance of undergraduate study,  I graduated with honor “outstanding graduate” as an undergraduate. I was also selected as a candidate for a master degree waiving entrance exams(5 out 200+). As a graduate, under the supervision of professor YongXin from Nanchang university, I independently performed every aspect of research thesis - from initial problem formulation to the final publication of results, and won great approval from the whole thesis committee.

During my college days, I completed all the courses necessary for pursing a computer science master degree, including calculus, linear algebra, probabilities, matrix and etc. By self study, I passed National Computer Rank Examination rank 2, 3, and 4 successively. Among them, Rank 4 is equivalent to bachelor degree of computer science and covers all the fecundation courses of computer science, including ,operation system, computer architecture and interface, database, network, software engineering and data structure, discreet math.

After master graduation in 2005, I have been working on software development in Shanghai for 9 years, established solid foundation in programming skills as well as software product development. For the past 6 years, i had been working in the R&D department of Diebold, the largest US ATM vendor. I was software supervisor and led a team of 6-10 implementing various software solutions for the control and diagnose ATM. From 2010 to 2013, i was also actively invovle in startup project in spare time. I worked together with another graphic designer, business analyst, together the team published 3 android app, 1 ios app, and 2 websites. 

My future goal is to become an expert in an particular field of artificial intelligence and devote myself to the resolution of real problems of societal value. I believe the computer master program can fill in the gap between presence and my future goal. The strong research in vision, machine learning will provide me with the best education in this field, and the opportunity to accumulate hands on experience in the research and development in this field. 

Personally, it’s a truly tempting for me to go back to school and recharge myself. I am sure i will cherish this precious opportunity and make the most out of this graduate program if I honour of being admitted. On the other side, I also believe my rich software development experience in industry can bring a different perspective to the classroom discussion of the program. 

The potential computer science graduate program in your school will be a turning point for my career and life, thanks for your consideration.








 
