Jian Zhirong
 ROOM 502,  UNIT 51, Jinyang rd 660, Pudong, Shanghai, 200136, P.R. China
Email: jianzhirong@gmail.com; Mobile: +86-13818429981

Desired Research Areas:
Artificial intelligence research and application in a specific field such as computer vision, Information retrieval, natural language processing, data mining, Machine learning, and etc.

Education

B.E. in Mechanical and electrical engineering with honors “outstanding graduate”, Nanchang University, 1998-2002
M.E. in Material Processing Engineering, Nanchang University, 2002-2005

Work experience (9+ years):

After graduation, I have been working on software development in Shanghai, and accumulated rich experience on commercial software product development, as well as a wide variety of software development skills.

Software supervisor，Diebold Inc，2008.10--2014 (6 years)
 Diebold is the largest U.S. manufacturer of ATMs. I worked as software supervisor in its Shanghai branch research and development center, leading a team of 6-10 engineers. I am responsible for developing various stoneware applications to control and diagnose ATM device, as well as some future generation ATM prototype which tries to apply latest cloud/mobile technology to transform traditional ATM product.

Software engineer , AltiGen Communications, Inc.，  2006.9--2008.9
AltiGen is a US company and its chief product is telephony exchanger device. I worked as senior software engineer and mainly responsible for using C++ to develop back-end server, as well as client side application.

Software engineer  Shangahi Huaming Intelligent Device, Inc， 2005,7--2006.9
Shangahi Huaming Intelligent Device is a Chinese company and its product is ticket checking machine deployed in subway. I worked as software engineer and mainly developed embedded software by means of C++.
Part time Startup  2010 --- 2013

I worked together with another graphic designer, business analyst, together the team published below product:

Secure Message Box”, 
an android app which allows for protect those SMS by either manually selecting or automatically filtering them into the secure box, it also allows you to upload the messages in SMS to cloud storage(Google App Engine) .   https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.PESoft.SMB&hl=en
Auto Reply,  
an android app which automatically send SMS on user’s behalf, informing their inconvenience to attend his/her call.    https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.PEsoft.AutoReply&hl=en
Patient social network
A social network platform which allows patients to share their experience and knowledge.  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.pesoft.psnmobile&hl=en, 
English home
 A Drupal based website platform where english learner can find private native english teacher in Shanghai


Selected projects:

Serial Number recognition
July 2013 – May 2014, Diebold Inc

The goal of the project is to develop a solution that recognize serial number on the bank note as it goes through the internal ATM bill validation module. With such a system in place, controversy over the counterfeit note can be effectively resolved by referencing the the serial number records in ATM when the notes are dispensed.

Did a series of image prepossessing after the note image is captured:  rotation, cutting, serial number region location, noise clearing
Optimized tesseract to improve recognition rate
Enhanced Operator Assistant
June 2011 – December 2012, Diebold Inc
The aim of the project is to develop a software solution to allow easy repair of ATM errors and reduce service cost. As project lead, I led the project team through the process of POC, planning, development&validation, and release. This product is now a flagship product developed by china software team in Diebold, and the project won excellent achievement award in year 2012, and I was personally awarded excellent employee largely due to outstanding performance in this project.


Enhanced Operator Assistant
June 2011 – December 2012, Diebold Inc
The aim of the project is to develop a software solution to allow easy repair of ATM errors and reduce service cost. As project lead, I led the project team through the process of POC, planning, development&validation, and release. This product is now a flagship product developed by china software team in Diebold, and the project won excellent achievement award in year 2012, and I was personally awarded excellent employee largely due to outstanding performance in this project.
Used C++ to develop lower level module that monitor and report ATM errors.
Used C#,ASP.NET to implement the backend
Used javascript, html, css, Ajax, json, jquery to the frontend.

Patient Social Network
August 2012 – December 2012, part time startup
The goal is to develop a social network platform which allows patients to share their experience and knowledge. It can be accessed from web, android, and ios device. The android app link is: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.pesoft.psnmobile&hl=en

Built fuzzy search feature using full text search engine (Lucene API)
Built real time message pushing feature using WebSocket protocol
Key technology/frameworks used: mongodb, node.js, backbone, express.js, bootstrap


Publications:
I published two papers under the supervision t. Both of them are related to my graduate thesis: the research and application of Expert System (CLIPS) in automatic injection mold design.

Zhirong Jian, Yong Xin, Research of knowledge based injection moldbase design system, 2006,2, JOURNAL OF PLAST ICITY ENGINEERING
Zhirong Jian, Yong Xin, Automatic generation system study of standard injection moldbase design 2004,12, Die&mould industry
Selected Honor:
2012 Diebold Excellent employee,  March 2013
Outstanding graduate， Nanchang university， July 2002
Special excellence scholarship award 3 times (Top 1 in a class of 37)

Certificate:
National Computer Rank 4
 Rank 4 is equivalent to bachelor degree of computer science and covers all the foundational courses of computer science, including ,operation system, computer architecture and interface, database, network, software engineering and data structure,I passed National Computer Rank Examination rank 2, 3, and 4 successively from 2000 to 2002.

Certified SCRUM master, a professional certification for software project management
Programming Skills:
C++,Java, C#,Javascript,PHP, html, css
SQL,MonogDB,eclipse, visual studio, Netbean
windows,Linux,Git, Rational configuration tools
OpenCV,ASP.NET,windows Form, node.js,web development,mobile development (Android,ios), lucence.and etc

Test scores:
GRE 320 (verbal 160,  Quantitive 161, AW 3), 
TOEFL 102(Reading 29, Listening 29, speaking 20, writing 24).
Undergraduate： GPA: 3.1
Graduate： GPA：3.4 


